.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BALXPARSE 1 "December 9, 2010"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
.B balxparse
\- Barry Project's program to parse firmware ALX files.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B balxparse [\-h][\-i lang][\-d path][\-o file] [ALX files...]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B balxparse
is a tool for loading XML data from the ALX files included with
BlackBerry firmware updates.  It is able to parse this data in multiple
charsets / languages, as well as parsing the entire directory of ALX
files.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Display a command help summary.
.TP
.B \-i lang
Specify the internationalization charset/language to use.  By running
.B balxparse
with the \-h option, a list of available languages is displayed.
.TP
.B \-d path
Specify the path to find all ALX files.
.TP
.B \-o file
Specify an OS filename (Platform.alx) to parse, without loading application
and library dependencies.
.SH AUTHOR
.nh
.B balxparse
was initially written for the Barry project by Nicolas Vivien, with
additional contributions from others over time.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
http://www.netdirect.ca/barry

