.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BCHARGE 1 "August 17, 2007"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
bcharge \- program to set BlackBerry handhelds to 500mA
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bcharge
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics, 
.\" respectively.
\fBbcharge\fP is a program that sends a special handshake to all BlackBerry
devices it finds on the USB bus.  This handshake causes the device to reset
itself, and then request 500mA instead of the usual 100mA.  This allows
proper charging on Linux.
.PP
It is safe to run this command multiple times, as it only changes devices
that are not already set to 500mA.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-o
For Blackberry Pearl devices, using this switch causes bcharge to set the
Product ID to 0001.  Otherwise, the default is to use Product ID 0004.
When the Pearl is in 0004 mode, two USB interfaces are presented:
one for database access and one for mass storage.  In 0001 mode, only
the database access is available.

Before bcharge is run, the Pearl shows up with a Product ID of 0006,
which only gives mass storage functionality.  You must run bcharge
for the Pearl before using btool.
.TP
.B \-d
Again, this switch is for the Blackberry Pearl to switch it back to
0004 dual mode after having run bcharge with the -o option.  Since
a Pearl in mode 0001 is practically indistinguishable from a classic
Blackberry, the -d switch is needed to tell bcharge that you really
are working with a Pearl.
.TP
.B \-h
Help summary.
.TP
.B \-p devpath
If your system runs a kernel with CONFIG_USB_SUSPEND enabled (some Ubuntu
kernels have this turned on, as well as some Fedora 7 kernels), then you
also need to adjust the suspend state to avoid going into power saving mode.
This option is used when run from udev, using a rule such as:

BUS=="usb", SUBSYSTEM=="usb_device", ACTION=="add", SYSFS{idVendor}=="0fca", SYSFS{idProduct}=="0001", SYMLINK+="bb-%k", GROUP="plugdev", MODE="0660", RUN="/usr/sbin/bcharge \-p %p"

When using this option, you will almost always need to be root.
.TP
.B \-s path
Specify the mount point for the sysfs filesystem.  On most systems this is
mounted at /sys which is the default.

.SH AUTHOR
bcharge and this manual page were written by Chris Frey <cdfrey@foursquare.net>
for the Barry project.
.PP
http://www.netdirect.ca/software/packages/barry/index.php

