.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BFUSE 1 "August 17, 2009"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
.B bfuse
\- Create a FUSE filesystem out of BlackBerry databases.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bfuse
mountpoint [options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B bfuse
connects to your BlackBerry and turns its databases into
a mounted filesystem using the FUSE filesystem library.  As such,
it has a few basic arguments, and a list of common options supported
by FUSE.
.PP
The device will remain in Desktop mode for as long as bfuse runs.
.PP
For more information on FUSE options, see
http://fuse.sourceforge.net/

.SH BARRY OPTIONS
.TP
.B \--p pin
Specify the PIN of the device you want to mount.  Default is to mount
all available devices.
.TP
.B \--P password
Simplistic method to specify the device password on the command line.

.SH FUSE OPTIONS
.TP
.B \--o opt
FUSE mount options.
.TP
.B \-h
Display a command help summary.
.TP
.B \-V
Display version information, including Barry library, FUSE library, and
kernel interface.
.TP
.B \-d
Enable debug output.  Implies '-f'.
.TP
.B \-f
Operate in the foreground.
.TP
.B \-s
Disable multi-threaded operation.

.SH AUTHOR
.nh
.B bfuse
is part of the Barry project and was written Chris Frey, as was
this manual page.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
http://www.netdirect.ca/software/packages/barry

