.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BIDENTIFY 1 "February 24, 2011"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
.B bidentify
\- Barry Project's program to identify BlackBerry handhelds
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bidentify
[\-B busname][\-N devname][\-h][\-v]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B bidentify
scans the USB system for available BlackBerry devices and probes each
one it finds, then sends the identifying information to stdout in a
computer\(hyfriendly format.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-B busname
Specify the USB bus to search for Blackberry devices on.  This is the
first number displayed in the output from the lsusb command, such as 002.
If the busname is numeric on your system, 2 and 002 are equal.  See
also the \-N option, which can be used together with this option
to precisely select the device to work with.
.TP
.B \-N devname
Specify the USB device name.  This is the second number displayed in the
output from the lsusb command, such as 005.  If the device name is numeric
on your system, 5 and 005 are equal.  See also the \-B option.
.TP
.B \-c
If used with the \-m option, ESN numbers will be displayed in both hex and
decimal formats where possible.  If \-m is not used, this option has
no effect.
.TP
.B \-m
Also show the device's ESN / MEID / IMEI number.  This requires desktop
database access, so is an option.  It will only work on devices that have
no password.
.TP
.B \-v
Dump verbose protocol data during operation.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.


.SH RETURN STATUS
If
.B bidentify
detects a BlackBerry device, but cannot access it for some reason, it
will write an error message to stderr describing the access problem,
and return a count of the number of such failed devices as the error code.
A return code of 0 means there were no BlackBerry devices found that
could not be probed.

In the event of a fatal error, the message will be written to stderr,
with an error code of 1.


.SH AUTHOR
.nh
.B bidentify
is part of the Barry project.
This manual page was written by Chris Frey.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
http://www.netdirect.ca/software/packages/barry

