.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BIO 1 "May 17, 2011"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
.B bio
\- Barry Input / Output
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bio -i <input type> [input args] -o <output type> [output args] [-o <output type> ...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B bio
is a command line tool that treats devices, backups, and data streams
as input and output.
.B bio
supports the following types of IO (actual type name shown in bold):

.IP
.B device

.B tar
(backup files)

.B boost
(serialization files and streams)

.B mime
streams

.B ldif
streams

human readable and hex text
.B dump

.B sha1
sum output

.B cstore
for extracting Content Store records

.PP
Each command line consists of at least one input and output option,
along with their switches.  More than one output can be used, as long
as they do not conflict with each other.  For example, it is not possible
to read and write from the same device PIN.

.PP
This tool combines a lot of the functionality of
.B btool, btardump, brecsum,
and
.B bs11nread,
but does it more flexibly, and improves functionality in some cases,
such as Boost archives being able to contain more than one database.

.SH DEVICE TYPE OPTIONS
.PP
The
.B device
type is used to read or write from a device connected via USB.
Some of the options below are valid only in one input or output
mode, some in both.
.TP
.B \-d db
Name of database to load, when using the
.B device
type as input.  Can be used multiple times.  See
.B btool \-t
for a list of databases on the device.
.TP
.B \-A
Selects all databases found on the device, instead of adding them
manually via the \-d option.
.TP
.B \-p pin
PIN of device to talk to.  Valid for both input and output.
Only needed if you have more than one Blackberry connected at once.
.TP
.B \-P password
Simplistic method to specify device password.  In a real application, this
would be done using a more secure prompt.
.TP
.B \-w mode
Set write mode when using the
.B device
type in output mode.  This must be specified, or nothing will be written.
Can be one of:
.B erase, overwrite, addonly, addnew.

.\".SH DATABASE COMMAND MODIFIERS (DEVICE)
.\"The following options modify the -d command option above, and can be used
.\"multiple times for more than one record.
.\".TP
.\".B \-r #
.\"Fetch specific record, given a record index number as seen in the -T state table.
.\"Can be used multiple times to fetch specific records from a single database.
.\".TP
.\".B \-R #
.\"Same as -r, but also clears the record's dirty flags.
.\".TP
.\".B \-D #
.\"Delete the specified record using the index number as seen in the -T state table.

.SH TAR TYPE OPTIONS
.PP
The
.B tar
type is used to read or write from a backup file created by btool or
the backup GUI.
.TP
.B \-d db
Name of database to load, when using the
.B tar
type as input.  Can be used multiple times.
.B Note
that if no \-d options are specified,
.B bio
defaults to reading all available databases.
.TP
.B \-f file
The tar backup file to read or write from.
.B Bio
uses gzip compressed tar files, so suitable extensions would be .tgz
and .tar.gz.  Unfortunately, due to internal limitations,
an actual file must be specified here, and not \- for stdin / stdout.

.SH BOOST TYPE OPTIONS
.PP
The
.B boost
type is used to read and write parsable records in Boost Serialization
format.  These files were historically written and read by
.B btool
and
.B bs11nread.
.B Bio
is more flexible, in that it can contain multiple databases in one
serialization archive.
.TP
.B \-f file
Filename to read from or write to.  Use \- to specify stdin or stdout.
If not specified for input, defaults to stdin, but since output can
contain non-ASCII chars, you must use \-f \- if you want to write
to stdout.

.SH LDIF TYPE OPTIONS
.PP
The
.B ldif
type is used to read or write ldif output, like the output of the
LDAP command line tool
.B ldapsearch.
.TP
.B \-c dn
When using ldif as output, specify the base DN.
.TP
.B \-C dnattr
Again, for output, specify the attribute name to use when building the FQDN.

.SH MIME TYPE OPTIONS
.PP
The
.B mime
type is used to read or write VCARD, VEVENT, VTODO, or VJOURNAL records
based on the Address Book, Calendar, Tasks, or Memos databases respectively.
.TP
.B \-f file
Filename to read from or write to.  Defaults to \- for stdin or stdout.

.SH DUMP TYPE OPTIONS
.PP
The
.B dump
type is used only for output, and sends human readable record data to
stdout.  Parsable records are parsed; unknown records are dumped in hex
format.
.TP
.B \-n
Use hex format for all records.

.SH SHA1 TYPE OPTIONS
.PP
The
.B sha1
type is used to mimic the behaviour of the
.B brecsum
command.  It calculates a SHA1 sum on the raw record data and sends
the sum to stdout.
.TP
.B \-t
Include the DB Name, Type, and Unique record ID in the checksum for each
record.

.SH CSTORE TYPE OPTIONS
.PP
The
.B cstore
type is used to parse Content Store records.
.TP
.B \-l
List the filenames and folders found in the Content Store database.
.TP
.B \-f file
Select a filename from the above list to extract and save locally.
Specify the entire path as shown in the \-l list.
If the file is found in the device, it will be written to the current
directory, using the base filename as the name.  If a file by that name
exists already, the filename will be modified to avoid overwriting local
files.

.SH STANDALONE OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Displays a detailed summary of command line options.
.TP
.B \-I cs
Set the international charset for string conversions.  Valid values here
are available with
.B iconv \-\-list
.TP
.B \-S
Show list of supported database parsers and builders.
.TP
.B \-v
Dump verbose low level protocol data during USB operations, to stdout.




.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
1) Backup a full device to tar backup:
.IP
bio -i device -A -o tar -f mybackup.tar.gz
.TP
2) Read a backup file and convert the Address Book to MIME
.IP
bio -i tar -f mybackup.tar.gz -d "Address Book" -o mime
.TP
3) Restore a single database to a device
.IP
bio -i tar -f mybackup.tar.gz -d "Address Book" -o device -w erase
.TP
4) Copy the Calendar from one device to another, and dump
the records to stdout in human readable format at the same time
.IP
bio -i device -p 3009efe3 -d Calendar -o device -p 204062f3 -w erase -o dump
.TP
5) Read LDIF input and convert the contacts to MIME format
.IP
ldapsearch -x | bio -i ldif -o mime
.TP
6) Test the record code by running the Tasks database through
the Boost storage and back to human readable
.IP
bio -i device -d Tasks -o dump

vs.

bio -i device -d Tasks -o boost -f - | bio -i boost -f - -o dump

.SH AUTHOR
.nh
.B bio
is part of the Barry project.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
http://www.netdirect.ca/barry

