.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BJAVALOADER 1 "September 11, 2010"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
.B bjavaloader
\- Barry Project's program to manage BlackBerry applications
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bjavaloader [-h][-p pin][-P pass][-v]
.TP
.B bjavaloader dir [-s]
.TP
.B bjavaloader deviceinfo
.TP
.B bjavaloader load <.codfile>
.TP
.B bjavaloader save [-A] <module_name>
.TP
.B bjavaloader wipe [-a | -i]
.TP
.B bjavaloader erase [-f] <module_name>
.TP
.B bjavaloader eventlog
.TP
.B bjavaloader cleareventlog
.TP
.B bjavaloader logstacktraces
.TP
.B bjavaloader screenshot <.bmp file>
.TP
.B bjavaloader settime [yyyy-mm-dd HH:MM:SS]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B bjavaloader
is a tool for loading, listing, and deleting applications on a BlackBerry
device.  It has a few other features as well, not pertaining to application
management.  The command syntax is intentionally similar to the Windows
program 'javaloader.exe' provided by Research In Motion, in order
to make it easy to use the same build scripts on Linux and Windows.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-A
Used with the 'save' command to save all available modules.
.TP
.B \-a
Used with the 'wipe' command to only wipe the applications.
.TP
.B \-i
Used with the 'wipe' command to only wipe the filesystem.
.TP
.B \-f
Used with the 'erase' command to force the erasure of an application
that is currently in use in the device.  Experimental.
.TP
.B \-h
Display a command help summary.
.TP
.B \-s
When using the 'dir' command, list the submodules as well.
.TP
.B \-p pin
Specifies the PIN number of the device with which you wish to communicate,
when multiple devices are connected.
.TP
.B \-P password
A simplistic method to specify the device password.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose debug output.  This enables dumping of USB bus scanning, as
well as the protocol packets used during communication.

.SH COMMANDS
.TP
.B dir [-s]
Fetch a list of all applications and display them on stdout.  When used with
the -s option, submodules are included, and can take a long time to display.
.TP
.B deviceinfo
Provides information on the handheld.
.TP
.B load <.cod filename> ...
Loads one or more COD application files into the device.
.TP
.B save [-A] <module name> ...
Retrieves modules from the handheld and writes them to .cod files with the
same name as the module.  Note that this will overwrite any existing .cod
file in the current directory.  If the -A option is specified, a dir will
be done internally, and all available modules will be saved.
.TP
.B wipe [-a | -i]
Wipes the handheld, removing all data such as messages, contacts, etc.
and/or all .cod files, including OS .cod files.
By default, with no options specified, both applications and data are wiped.
Use the switches to specify only applications or data.
.TP
.B erase [-f] <module name> ...
Delete the specified application module(s).  The module name can be determined
using the 'dir' command.  When used with the -f option, the module is erased
even if in use, and the device will be reset.
.TP
.B eventlog
Retrives the handheld event log and prints it on stdout.
.TP
.B cleareventlog
Clears the handheld event log.
.TP
.B logstacktraces
Dumps the stack traces for all threads into the event log, which can then
be viewed with the 'eventlog' command.
.TP
.B screenshot <.bmp filename>
Capture current screen image and save in BMP format.
.TP
.B settime [yyyy-mm-dd HH:MM:SS]
Sets the time on the handheld to the current time, or the specified time.
If time is given as an argument, the current system timezone is assumed.

.SH AUTHOR
.nh
.B bjavaloader
was initially written for the Barry project by Nicolas Vivien, with
additional contributions from others over time.  This manual page was
written by Chris Frey.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
http://www.netdirect.ca/software/packages/barry

