.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BJDWP 1 "September 29, 2009"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
.B bjdwp
\- Command line USB Blackberry Java Debug Wire Protocol
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bjdwp
[\-h][\-p pin][\-P password][\-v] address port

.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B bjdwp
is a program that supports the Java Debug Wire Protocol over USB,
which enables debugging of Java programs directly on your Blackberry.

Support is experimental, and development is focused primarily on the
BlackBerry Storm.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-p pin
PIN of device to talk with.  Only needed if you have more than one Blackberry
connected at once.
.TP
.B \-P password
Simplistic method to specify device password.  In a real application, this
would be done using a more secure prompt.
.TP
.B \-v
Dump verbose protocol data during operation.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.

.SH ARGUMENTS
The following arguments are required, in order to provide a socket where
the JDWP server will listen for connections from the debugger.
.TP
.B address
Most often 'localhost' but can be any IP or hostname on the machine
running bjdwp.
.TP
.B port
Port to listen on.

.SH EXAMPLES
Start the server and the USB connection to the device:

	bjdwp localhost 8000

Then start your java debugger:

	jdb \-connect com.sun.jdi.SocketAttach:hostname=localhost,port=8000


.SH AUTHOR
.nh
.B bjdwp
was initially written for the Barry project by Nicolas VIVIEN.
This manual page was written by Chris Frey.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
http://www.netdirect.ca/software/packages/barry

