.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BRAWCHANNEL 1 "August 17, 2010"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
.B brawchannel
\- Barry Project's program to create a channel to a BlackBerry application
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B brawchannel [-h][-p pin][-P pass][-v] <channel name>
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B brawchannel
is a tool for connecting to an application channel on a BlackBerry device,
as provided to on device programs by the 
.B net.rim.device.api.system.USBPort
API. Data received on the channel will be output to STDOUT and any data
received on STDIN in will be sent over the channel. Any errors or verbose
output will be written to STDERR.
.BR
The
.B channel name
provided to this program should be the same as the channel name passed
to the call to 
.B net.rim.device.api.system.USBPort.registerChannel
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
Display a command help summary.
.TP
.B \-p pin
Specifies the PIN number of the device with which you wish to communicate,
when multiple devices are connected.
.TP
.B \-P password
A simplistic method to specify the device password.
.TP
.B \-v
Verbose debug output.  This enables dumping of USB bus scanning, as
well as the protocol packets used during communication.  This will
cause libusb to output information on STDOUT, which will usually be
undesirable. Setting the environment variable USB_DEBUG to 0, 1 or 2
should prevent any addition output on STDOUT.
.SH AUTHOR
.nh
.B brawchannel
was initially written for the Barry project by RealVNC Ltd.,
based on bjavaloader by Nicolas Vivien.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
http://www.netdirect.ca/software/packages/barry

