.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BTARDUMP 1 "December 7, 2010"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
.B btardump
\- Command line parser for Barry backup files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B btardump
[\-d db][\-h][\-i charset][\-V] filename [filenames...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B btardump
takes one or more Barry backup tar files on the command line, and
dumps parsed database records to stdout.  By default, all records
are dumped, but this can be limited by the \-d option.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d db
Name of database to dump to stdout.  Can be used multiple times
to parse multiple databases at once.  If not specified, all available
databases from the backup file are dumped.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-i charset
Specifies the iconv charset to use for converting international strings.
The Blackberry uses the WINDOWS\-1252 charset, which is incompatible with
the more common code pages used in Linux.  The most useful charset to use
with this option is UTF\-8, and is highly recommended.  Any other charset
available via 'iconv \-\-list' can be used here too, but may not be
successful for some character conversions.
.TP
.B \-V
Enable vformat MIME output where available.  Address Book gets printed
in vCard format, Calendar in vEvent format, Memos in vJournal, and
Tasks in vTodo, etc.

.SH AUTHOR
.nh
.B btardump
is part of the Barry project.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
http://www.netdirect.ca/barry

