.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BTOOL 1 "November 30, 2007"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
.B btool
\- Barry Project's program to interface with BlackBerry handheld
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B btool 
[-B busname][-N devname][-c dn][-C dnattr][-d db [-f file][-r#][-R#]-D#]][-h][-l][-L][-m cmd][-M][-p pin][-s db -f file][-S][-t][-v][-X]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B btool
is a very early version of a program that communicates with a
BlackBerry device over USB; there is no intention to support ancient
serial-port BlackBerries.
Since the protocols used by BlackBerry are not documented 
by the manufacturer Research In Motion, this program is 
experimental and you \fBuse at own risk\fP. 
Be sure your device is backed up by another program
if it contains important data.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-B busname
Specify the USB bus to search for Blackberry devices on.  This is the
first number displayed in the output from the lsusb command, such as 002.
If the busname is numeric on your system, 2 and 002 are equal.  See
also the \-N option, which can be used together with this option
to precisely select the device to work with.
.TP
.B \-c dn
Convert address book database to LDIF format, using the
specified dn as the baseDN.  Sends LDIF output to stdout.
.TP
.B \-C dnattr
Spcify LDIF attribute name to use when building the FQDN in the dn attribute.
Defaults to 'cn'.  If you modify the mapping with the \-m
switch, make sure that the new dnattr exists.
.TP
.B \-d db
Load database 'db' FROM device and dump to stdout.
Can be used multiple times to fetch more than one database.  See the -t
option for a list of device databases.
.TP
.B \-e epp
Override endpoint pair detection.  'epp' is a single string separated
by a comma, holding the read,write endpoint pair.

Example: -e 83,5

Note: Endpoints are specified in hex.  Use the same numbers given by the
lsusb -v output.

You should never need to use this option, as endpoints are autodetected.
.TP
.B \-f file
Filename to write or read handheld data to/from.  Used in conjunction with
the -d and -s options, respectively.
.TP
.B \-l
Lists attached Blackberry devices, and their PIN numbers.
.TP
.B \-L
List Contact field names.  Each name represents a contact field that the
Barry library recognizes.  Use these names with the -m option to adjust
the LDIF name to field mapping.
.TP
.B \-m command
Map LDIF name to Contact field, or unmap LDIF name.  To map a new or existing
LDIF attribute name to a Barry contact field, use the format 'ldif,read,write'
where ldif represents the name of the attribute to map, read is the
contact field name used to read data from the record, and write is the
contact field name used to write data to the record.

To unmap an LDIF name, specify the LDIF attribute alone.

For example, to map a new LDIF attribute called "strange" to read from
FirstName and write to LastName, use:

\-m strange,FirstName,LastName

The -m option can be specified multiple times to create the desired mapping.
.TP
.B \-M
List current LDIF mapping to stdout.
.TP
.B \-N devname
Specify the USB device name.  This is the second number displayed in the
output from the lsusb command, such as 005.  If the device name is numeric
on your system, 5 and 005 are equal.  See also the \-B option.
.TP
.B \-p pin
PIN of device to talk with.  Only needed if you have more than one Blackberry
connected at once.
.TP
.B \-P password
Simplistic method to specify device password.  In a real application, this
would be done using a more secure prompt.
.TP
.B \-s db
Save database 'db' TO device from data loaded from -f file.  See the -t
option for a list of device databases.
.TP
.B \-S
Show list of supported database parsers and builders.  Parsers are used
when reading data out of the device, and builders are used when writing
data to the device.  If a parser is supported, but its associated builder
is not, that means you cannot change the database programmatically, such
as with the -s option.
.TP
.B \-t
Show device's database table.
.TP
.B \-T db
Show record state table for given database.
.TP
.B \-v
Dump verbose protocol data during operation.
.TP
.B \-X
Reset device.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.

.SH DATABASE COMMAND MODIFIERS
The following options modify the -d command option above, and can be used
multiple times for more than one record.
.TP
.B \-r #
Fetch specific record, given a record index number as seen in the -T state table.
Can be used multiple times to fetch specific records from a single database.
.TP
.B \-R #
Same as -r, but also clears the record's dirty flags.
.TP
.B \-D #
Delete the specified record using the index number as seen in the -T state table.


.SH AUTHOR
.nh
.B btool 
is part of the Barry project.
This manual page was written by Ian Darwin and Chris Frey.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
http://www.netdirect.ca/software/packages/barry/index.php
.br
Especially the caveats, and the call for developers and others
to help with the project.

