.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BWATCH 1 "August 30, 2011"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
.B bwatch
\- program to view live updates of screenshots from a BlackBerry(TM) handheld
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B bwatch
[\-d delay][\-h][\-p pin][\-P password][\-v]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B bwatch
is a program that takes screenshots of a given device at regular
intervals, and displays those screenshots on the screen, using
the SDL library.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d delay
The delay interval between screen updates, in milliseconds.  Default is 500.
.TP
.B \-p pin
PIN of device to talk with.  Only needed if you have more than one Blackberry
connected at once.
.TP
.B \-P password
Simplistic method to specify device password.  In a real application, this
would be done using a more secure prompt.
.TP
.B \-v
Dump verbose protocol data during operation.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.

.SH AUTHOR
.nh
.B bwatch
is part of the Barry project, and was originally written by Alberto Mattea.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
http://netdirect.ca/barry

