.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH UPLDIF 1 "May 29, 2008"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
.B upldif
\- Barry Project's LDIF contact uploader
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B upldif 
[-p pin][-u][-h][-v]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B upldif
reads a list of contacts in LDAP LDIF format from stdin, and
overwrites the Blackberry's Address Book database with those
contents.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-p pin
Specify the PIN of the device to talk to.  Only needed if there are
multiple Blackberries plugged into your system at once.
.TP
.B \-u
Actually do the upload.  If not specified, upldif only dumps the parsed
LDIF data to stdout for verification.

Note! If this option is specified, all existing contacts on your
Blackberry will be deleted and replaced with the LDIF contacts.
.TP
.B \-v
Dump verbose protocol data during operation.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.


.SH RETURN STATUS
In the event of a fatal error, the message will be written to stderr,
with an error code of 1.


.SH AUTHOR
.nh
.B upldif 
is part of the Barry project.
This manual page was written by Chris Frey.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
http://www.netdirect.ca/software/packages/barry/index.php

