.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH BARRYBACKUP 1 "May 29, 2008"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
.B barrybackup
\- Barry Project's backup program for the BlackBerry handheld
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B barrybackup 
[-?][-d]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.B barrybackup
is a GUI application for backing up and restoring Blackberry handheld
databases.

The application allows for filtering of databases for both backup
and restore, so not all databases need to be backed up at once,
nor all restored.

Backups and configuration files are stored by default in the user's
home directory, under ~/.barry/backup/PIN.  The backup files are
compressed tarballs containing specially named files for each record
of the databases.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-d
.B \-\-debug-output
Enables low level protocol debug output written to stdout/stderr.
.TP
.B \-\-display=DISPLAY
Specify which X display to use.
.TP
.B \-?
.B \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
.B \-v
Dump verbose protocol data during operation.
.TP
.B \-h, \-\-help
Show summary of options.

.SH TAR FORMAT
Backups are stored in tar format, compressed with gzip.  Backup files
are named with the following pattern:

	PIN-YYYYMMDD-HHMMSS.tar.gz

Each record is appended to the tar file using the following pattern
for the filename:

	DBname/RecordID RecordTypeID

That is, the database name is used as the directory name, and
the filename contains the record ID and record type ID separated
by a space.

Database names can contain spaces.

Record IDs are generally unique, but not all Blackberry devices
mandate this, so it is possible, but rare, to have two records
in the tar file with the same filename.  This is ok.  The only problem you'd
see is if you expanded such a tar file to a filesystem.  The restore
process just reads in the filename sequentially and writes them to
the device, so duplicate record IDs are not a problem.

.SH AUTHOR
.nh
.B barrybackup 
is part of the Barry project.
This manual page was written by Chris Frey.
.SH SEE ALSO
.PP
http://www.netdirect.ca/software/packages/barry/index.php

